# Join current query to another omop table

Simple wrapper for join functions to join an existing query to another
table in the omop cdm (or any other of the same source).

## Usage

``` r
omop_join(
  data,
  table,
  type,
  by,
  suffix = c("_x", "_y"),
  con = getOption("con.default.value"),
  schema = NULL,
  x_as = NULL,
  y_as = NULL,
  ...
)
```

## Arguments

- data:

  sql query from dbplyr/dplyr. this function works in pipes!

- table:

  the omop table (or other table in your schema) you wish to join

- type:

  the type of join. use types available in dplyr: left, right, inner,
  anti, full etc.

- con:

  defaults to the connection you set with options()

- schema:

  defaults to the schema you set with options()

- x_as:

  optional; a string for the name of the left table

- y_as:

  optional; a string for the name of the right table

- ...:

  arguments passed on to the join function. e.g., by = "person_id"

## Value

Continued dplyr query

## Details

If you are using omop_join with ohdsi_lab, you should include the
following two lines at the top of your script after setting the schema
and connection, where con refers to a connection generated by
DatabaseConnector::connect() and cdm_schema points to the cdm_schema for
pharmetrics. To provide provide an alternative schema, see below.

options(con.default.value = con)

options(schema.default.value = cdm_schema)

There are a few good reasons to use omop_join() when possible over the
x_join functions from dplyr. First, it reduces the code necessary to
join an existing table to another table. Second, it includes
checks/workarounds for two sources of common errors using dplyr with
DatabaseConnector: it automatically appends the x_as and y_as arguments
to the join call if they are not provided and it changes the default
suffix from .x/.y to \_x/\_y for cases with shared column names not
specified by the `by` argument which will result in a sql error.

omop_join() can also be used to join tables in other schema - simply set
the schema argument to the preferred schema (whereas otherwise it just
looks for the default).

## Examples

``` r
options(con.default.value = con)
#> Error: object 'con' not found
options(schema.default.value = cdm_schema)
#> Error: object 'cdm_schema' not found
obs_tbl |>
  omop_join("person", type = "left", by = "person_id")
#> Error in omop_join(obs_tbl, "person", type = "left", by = "person_id"): Provide `con` as an argument or default with `options(con.default.value = ...)`
```
